NF Photography — Brand Guidelines
A working reference for everything visual: the mark, the colour, the type, the tone.
Built for one photographer; designed to last as the work grows.
Version 1.0 Date May 2026 Owner Nicholas Falzon · Malta Contact nfalzon.com ·
@nfalzon_photos
Contents
1. The brand
2. Voice & values
3. The logo
4. Colour
5. Typography
6. Buttons
7. Voice & tone in writing
8. Quick reference
This document is a working reference. It will evolve as the brand does. When something
written here stops being true of the work, update the document — don't keep the work
consistent with an outdated rule.

-- 1 of 21 --

1. The brand
Overview
NF Photography is the Malta-based sports photojournalism practice of Nicholas Falzon,
working with clubs, athletes, federations, and sponsors. The business documents live sport
— football, futsal, motorsport, waterpolo, and more — and delivers published-quality
imagery that clubs and athletes can actually use to grow their reach, win sponsors, and
build their profile.
Where most local sports photography is volunteer-grade or generic, NF Photography brings
the discipline of photojournalism: serious work, filed on deadline, across the sports most
Maltese photographers won't or can't cover.
Positioning statement
The working sports photojournalist Maltese clubs, athletes, and federations can
actually book — covering football, futsal, motorsport, and waterpolo with published-
quality imagery delivered on a journalist's timeline.
Two names, used on purpose
The brand operates under two coordinated names:
Name 	Use case
NF
Photography
Business name. Invoices, contracts, proposals, watermarks, sponsorship decks,
website footer, social handles.
Nicholas
Falzon
Personal name. About page, newspaper credits, athlete and club conversations,
email signatures, press features.

-- 2 of 21 --

Clubs and federations hire a business under contract; athletes and journalists trust a person
on the sideline. Running both names in parallel lets the brand serve B2B credibility and
B2C relationship-building at the same time.
Tagline
Primary tagline
Pitchside, poolside, trackside.
Three words signalling multi-sport range, naming the actual environments NF
Photography works in. It's the hero line on the website, social bios, and proposal covers —
and impossible for competitors to credibly copy unless they shoot all three.
Supporting line (longer-form copy)
Sport, captured properly.
Used in proposals, manifestos, and the back-end of an "about" page. Quietly confrontational
— implies the alternative (most local sports photography) is improperly done, which is the
brand's market opening.
Target market
Primary clients (B2B): Maltese football and futsal clubs, waterpolo clubs and the
national federation, motorsport teams and event promoters, sports federations
needing season-long media coverage.
Secondary clients: Individual athletes building personal brands, sponsors needing
match-day imagery, sports journalists and local press.
Geography: Malta + occasional regional travel.
Positioning tier: Mid-tier professional.

-- 3 of 21 --

2. Voice & values
Core values
Four values, each defendable in a real client conversation. They pair naturally: Craft +
Speed (the product), Range + Trust (the relationship).
01 · Craft
Newspaper-grade quality on every shoot. Lighting, composition, colour, and edit are
intentional — never spray-and-pray. The benchmark is publishable, not "good enough for
socials."
02 · Speed
Same-day social-ready edits. Full galleries within 48 hours. In sport, late media is dead
media — turnaround is part of the product.
03 · Range
Football, futsal, motorsport, waterpolo, and beyond. Range is a service promise: multi-sport
clubs and federations can hire one trusted photographer instead of three.
04 · Trust
Reliable delivery, clean licensing, professional conduct around athletes, parents,
journalists, and sponsors. Boring on paper; decisive in winning repeat contracts.
Personality
A sports photojournalist who takes the work seriously and knows how to get it done.
NF Photography is not a creative-for-hire, a content creator, or a hobbyist with a camera. It
is a working photojournalist running a business — a discipline with its own standards,
posture, and history. The brand inherits all of that.

-- 4 of 21 --

Dial 	Setting
Confidence Serious and quiet. The work, the press credits, and the track record speak. No self-
promotion theatre.
Tone 	Photojournalistic — observational, factual, sport-fluent. Reports the moment;
doesn't dramatise it.
Posture 	Professional. Shows up early, shoots through the full match, files on deadline. No
excuses, no drama, no diva.
Spotlight 	On the sport and the athlete. The photojournalist documents; he is never the story.
Aesthetic 	Documentary-modern. Editorial-grade. Built for the back page of a paper, not for a
wedding album.
Reliability The defining trait. A photojournalist's reputation lives or dies on whether the file
lands on time.
What the brand is not: a creative agency, a "visual storyteller," a content shop, a brand-
experience studio, or a lifestyle photographer who also shoots sport. It is a sports
photojournalist — and the brand voice should sound like one.
3. The logo
The mark
The logo is the existing NF Photography monogram framed by four corner brackets — a
reference to the camera viewfinder and the editorial crop mark. The frame signals
"photographer" without spelling it out.

-- 5 of 21 --

Master file: nf-logo-with-frame-a-symmetric.png (520 × 520 px)
Brackets-only overlay: nf-frame-brackets-overlay.svg (drop onto your real vector
logo file in Illustrator or Figma)
Variants
White-on-dark (primary) — for use on photography, dark backgrounds, social tiles
Black-on-light — for use on white surfaces, print, documents
Usage rules
Always
Keep clear space around the logo equal to the height of the "N" on all sides
Use white-on-dark on photography or dark backgrounds; black-on-light on white
Output as vector wherever possible (PDF, SVG); use raster (PNG) only for screens
Never
Don't recolour the logo in arbitrary brand colours — only black, white, or single-tone
teal/navy from the palette
Don't add drop shadows, glows, outlines, or effects
Don't stretch, skew, or rotate
Don't crowd it: respect the clear space rule

-- 6 of 21 --

Minimum sizes
Application 	Minimum
width
Notes
Full lockup (with PHOTOGRAPHY
wordmark)
80 px / 25 mm 	Below this, wordmark becomes
illegible
Icon-only (NF + brackets) 	24 px / 8 mm 	For favicons, watermarks, profile
avatars
Print and large display 	No upper limit Always export from vector source
Watermark
Use the icon-only version (NF + brackets, no PHOTOGRAPHY wordmark) for image
watermarks. Position bottom-right at 2–4% of image width. Subtle white at low opacity is
the default; full-strength only when the licence requires high visibility.
4. Colour
Philosophy
Black is the foundation. Teal is the brand accent (energy, freshness). Navy is the brand
depth (authority, editorial weight). Together they give the brand a layered voice that single-
accent systems can't reach.
All colours below are WCAG AA-compliant for their stated use. Status colours (success,
warning, error) are kept neutral and conventional — they're for UI feedback, not brand
expression.

-- 7 of 21 --

Brand colours
Foundation Black
Hex: #0A0A0A
Token: neutral-950
Use: The brand's anchor. Logo background, primary surfaces in inverted contexts,
default action button. Reserved over pure #000000 because it's slightly softer on
screen.
Brand Teal
Hex: #14B8A6
Token: teal-500
Use: The brand accent. Hero displays, dark sections, decorative accents. Reads as
energy and freshness.
On light backgrounds: step to teal-700 	#0F766E for text and teal-600
#0D9488 for fills (the brand teal itself fails AA contrast on white)
Brand Navy
Hex: #1E3A8A
Token: navy-900
Use: The brand depth. Editorial heading colour, feature section backgrounds,
secondary identity expression. Reads as authority and considered weight.
In dark mode: feature surfaces use navy-700 	#1D4ED8 to stand out from the page.

-- 8 of 21 --

Three usage patterns
The system supports three distinct visual moods. Most pages will mix them.
Pattern 	Mood 	Use for
1 · Default Black on white with occasional teal
accents
Portfolio galleries, services pages, blog posts,
contact forms
2 ·
Editorial
Navy heading on white, neutral
body, teal inline accent
About pages, manifesto sections, mission
statements, editorial headlines
3 · Feature Navy section with white text and
light teal accent
Press blocks, sponsorship sections, hero
callouts, season-stat moments
Key semantic tokens
These are the tokens you reference in components. The full palette ramps (50–950) for each
colour family are defined as raw tokens in nf-color-system.css .

-- 9 of 21 --

Token 	Light 	Dark 	Use
--color-bg 	#FFFFFF 	#0A0A0A Page background
--color-text 	#171717 	#FAFAFA Body, default headings
--color-text-muted 	#404040 	#D4D4D4 Secondary copy
--color-text-subtle 	#737373 	#A3A3A3 Captions, metadata
--color-text-accent 	#0F766E 	#2DD4BF Teal text — accent in copy
--color-text-secondary 	#1E3A8A 	#93C5FD Navy text — editorial headings
--color-fill-accent 	#0D9488 	#14B8A6 Teal fills — buttons, badges, dots
--color-bg-feature 	#1E3A8A 	#1D4ED8 Navy section backgrounds
--color-text-success 	#15803D 	#4ADE80 Success status
--color-text-warning 	#B45309 	#FCD34D Warning status
--color-text-error 	#DC2626 	#F87171 Error status
Status colour palette
Used only for UI feedback (form errors, success messages, alerts) — never for brand
expression.

-- 10 of 21 --

Status 	Default fill 	Light text 	Dark text
Success 	#16A34A (green-600) 	#15803D 	#4ADE80
Warning 	#F59E0B (amber-500) 	#B45309 	#FCD34D
Error 	#EF4444 (rose-500) 	#DC2626 	#F87171
5. Typography
The pairing
Two fonts, both free on Google Fonts, both loaded as variable fonts (one file each, full
weight range).
Role 	Font 	Weights 	Used for
Headings 	Space Grotesk 	400–700 	h1–h6, display, eyebrows
Body 	Inter 	400–700 	body, lead, small, caption, buttons
Why this pairing: Space Grotesk is a contemporary geometric grotesk with subtle
character — distinctive enough to give headlines presence, restrained enough to feel
professional. Inter is the gold standard for screen body text — hugely legible, neutral but
not sterile. Together: Space Grotesk gives the brand its voice in big moments; Inter does the
heavy lifting of actual reading.
Loading:
html

-- 11 of 21 --

Type scale
A 1.25 (minor third) modular scale, anchored on 16px body. Tight enough to feel refined
and editorial, wide enough to give clear hierarchy.
Token 	rem 	px 	Use
--text-display 	3.75rem 	60px 	Hero headings, poster moments
--text-h1 	3rem 	48px 	Page heading
--text-h2 	2.25rem 	36px 	Major section heading
--text-h3 	1.875rem 	30px 	Section heading
--text-h4 	1.5rem 	24px 	Sub-section heading
--text-h5 	1.25rem 	20px 	Minor heading
--text-h6 	1.125rem 	18px 	Smallest heading
--text-lead 	1.125rem 	18px 	Lead paragraph, intro copy
--text-body 	1rem 	16px 	Default body
--text-small 	0.875rem 	14px 	Meta, secondary, footnotes
--text-caption 	0.75rem 	12px 	Photo credits, fine print
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Space+Gro

-- 12 of 21 --

On screens narrower than 640px, the largest sizes ( display , h1 , h2 , h3 ) automatically
shrink so headlines don't overflow on mobile.
Line heights & letter spacing
Underlying principle: as text gets bigger, tracking gets tighter and line height gets
shorter.
Token 	Value 	Used on
--leading-tight 	1.1 	Display, h1, h2
--leading-snug 	1.25 	h3, h4, h5, h6
--leading-normal 	1.5 	Body, lead
--leading-relaxed 	1.625 	Long-form reading
--tracking-tighter 	-0.025em 	Display, h1
--tracking-tight 	-0.015em 	h2, h3
--tracking-normal 	0 	Default
--tracking-wide 	0.075em 	Eyebrow / overline
Heading weight rule
Default heading weight is 600 (semibold), not 700 (bold). Space Grotesk at 600 already
carries plenty of presence — going bold makes it feel heavy-handed for a brand whose
voice is meant to be quietly confident. Use 700 only for display/hero moments where extra
impact is needed.

-- 13 of 21 --

Eyebrow pattern
The single highest-leverage editorial layout move you can make:
Use this on every major page section — about, services, portfolio category headers, press
features.
6. Buttons
Three variants, one geometry
Hierarchy is built on contrast against the page, not colour. Brand colours stay reserved for
accents and brand moments, not for asking the user to click.
Variant 	Default appearance Use for
Primary 	Black fill, white text The single most important action on a section. Booking,
submitting, confirming. One per section, never two.
Secondary Transparent, neutral
border
An alternative to a primary. "View portfolio" next to "Book a
shoot."
Ghost 	Transparent, no
border
Cancels, skips, less important inline actions. Looks clickable
without shouting.
PRESS · WATERPOLO 	← eyebrow (caption size, uppercase, tracked, teal)
Behind the lane line. ← heading (h1 or h2)
A season covering... 	← lead paragraph

-- 14 of 21 --

States
State 	Trigger 	Visual change
Default At rest 	Variant's defined colours
Hover 	Cursor over 	Background shifts (primary darkens; secondary fills subtly;
ghost fills subtly)
Active 	Mouse down 	Brief return toward default (primary) or deeper fill (secondary,
ghost)
Focus 	Keyboard tab 	2px outline ring, 2px offset
Disabled disabled
attribute
40% opacity, cursor: not-allowed
Sizes
Size 	Padding 	Font size 	Total height
.btn-sm 	6px / 14px 	12px 	32px
(default) 	10px / 20px 	14px 	40px
.btn-lg 	14px / 28px 	16px 	48px
HTML usage
html

-- 15 of 21 --

Hierarchy rule
✅ Good — one primary, secondary as alternative, ghost for "I changed my mind":
[Book a shoot] [View portfolio] Cancel
❌ Bad — two primaries compete:
[Book a shoot] [View portfolio]
❌ Bad — three secondaries with no hierarchy:
[Book] [Portfolio] [Contact]
States are deliberately quiet — hover shifts background only. No drop shadows, no scale
transforms, no upward translate. Photojournalist brands don't bounce.
<!-- Primary CTA -->
<button class="btn btn-primary">Book a shoot</button>
<!-- Secondary, paired next to a primary -->
<button class="btn btn-primary">Book this package</button>
<button class="btn btn-secondary">See sample gallery</button>
<!-- Ghost, for low-emphasis tertiary actions -->
<button class="btn btn-ghost">Cancel</button>
<!-- Sizes and modifiers -->
<button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm">Small</button>
<button class="btn btn-primary btn-block">Full width</button>
<!-- Disabled -->
<button class="btn btn-primary" disabled>Sending…</button>

-- 16 of 21 --

7. Voice & tone in writing
Always
Direct. Say what happened, not how it felt.
Sport-fluent. Use the actual terminology of each sport ("78th minute", "qualifying
session", "lane line", "third period").
Athlete-respectful. The athlete is always the hero, never the photographer.
Confident without claiming. The work and the press credits do the boasting.
Never
"Capturing moments that last a lifetime."
"Passionate about my craft."
Generic adjectives like "stunning," "amazing," "beautiful."
Photographer-as-hero language.
Exclamation marks for emphasis.
Examples — Do / Avoid
✅ Do 	❌ Avoid
Equaliser, 78th minute. Hibernians 1–1
Floriana.
Capturing the raw emotion of a beautiful moment in
Maltese football!
Pitchside coverage, 90 minutes, full
gallery in 24 hours.
Passionate sports photography that captures every
moment that matters!

-- 17 of 21 --

✅ Do 	❌ Avoid
Featured in the Times of Malta press
archive.
Award-winning, internationally recognised
photojournalism.
Three sports. Four federations. One
season.
Bringing your sports memories to life through the
magic of photography.
Tone register
The voice should sit roughly where a sports columnist's voice sits — confident,
observational, sport-fluent, with restraint. Not hype-y like a brand promotion, not cold like
a corporate spec sheet, not florid like wedding photography copy.
8. Quick reference
Identity
Element 	Value
Business name 	NF Photography
Personal / credit
name
Nicholas Falzon
Tagline 	Pitchside, poolside, trackside.
Supporting line 	Sport, captured properly.
Values 	Craft · Speed · Range · Trust

-- 18 of 21 --

Element 	Value
Personality 	A sports photojournalist who takes the work seriously and knows how to
get it done
Primary sports 	Football, Futsal, Motorsport, Waterpolo
Market 	Malta + occasional regional travel
Positioning tier 	Mid-tier professional
Visual
Element 	Value
Logo 	NF monogram with four-corner symmetric frame brackets
Foundation black 	#0A0A0A
Brand teal 	#14B8A6
Brand navy 	#1E3A8A
Heading font 	Space Grotesk (variable, 400–700)
Body font 	Inter (variable, 400–700)
Type scale 	1.25 modular (minor third), base 16px
Border-radius (cards) 	8px
Border-radius (buttons) 	6px

-- 19 of 21 --

The complete asset kit
File 	Contains
NF-Photography-Brand-Guidelines.pdf 	Designed PDF version of this document
NF-Photography-Brand-Brief.md 	Detailed brand brief (markdown)
nf-logo-with-frame-a-symmetric.png 	Master logo · 520×520 raster
nf-frame-brackets-overlay.svg 	Brackets-only · drop onto your vector logo file
nf-color-system.css 	Full colour token system · light + dark mode
nf-color-system-docs.md 	Colour usage documentation
nf-typography.css 	Typography tokens, base styles, fonts
nf-typography-docs.md 	Typography usage documentation
nf-buttons.css 	Button component spec
nf-buttons-docs.md 	Button component documentation
What's intentionally absent from this system
A few deliberate omissions, because constraints make a brand:
No blue or purple in the palette. Teal + navy already cover the cool spectrum. A third
cool colour dilutes the editorial feel.
No third accent colour beyond teal and navy. Two is the limit for harmony.

-- 20 of 21 --

No serif body type. Editorial headings in serif can work; editorial body in serif feels
old-fashioned for a digital-first brand in 2026.
No condensed display fonts (Bebas Neue etc.) common in sport branding — they feel
"marketing" rather than "editorial."
No teal or navy CTA buttons. Brand colours are for brand moments, not for asking the
user to click.
No drop shadows, glows, or scale transforms anywhere in the system. Quiet motion
only. Photojournalist brands don't bounce.
Final note
This is a working document. The brand will change as the work changes. When something
written here stops being true, update the document — don't keep the work consistent with
an outdated rule.
The goal is always the same: serious sport photojournalism, properly delivered.

-- 21 of 21 --

